doc: nrf_cloud: Device ID and provisioning info (#16891)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/external_comp/nrf_cloud.rst

* Device connected to nRF Cloud over CoAP.

  The services can be used from nRF Cloud.

* Device connected to nRF Cloud over MQTT.

  The services can be used from nRF Cloud.

* Device connected to nRF Cloud over MQTT, with a customer-developed website or application that interacts with the `nRF Cloud REST API`_ to display device data and manage it in a customized way.

* Device connected to nRF Cloud over REST, interacting using the `nRF Cloud REST API`_.

* Device connected to a customer cloud service in a suitable manner. The services can be used from the customer cloud service that communicates over REST to the nRF Cloud REST API in a proxy configuration.

Choosing a device ID format: prefix-IMEI, device UUID, or other
***************************************************************

nRF Cloud supports a variety of device ID formats:

* A prefix plus IMEI

  This is reserved for Nordic development kits or evaluation platforms when the prefix is ``nrf-``.

* The device UUID

  This is a guaranteed unique ID stored in the modem.

* Compile-time

  A fixed device ID compiled into the firmware.

* Run-time

  A device ID generated by the application in an application-specific way.

> * HW-ID

Author: Turns out it should be Hardware ID to be consistent with `lib_hw_id`.

  A device ID generated from one of a selection of hardware IDs.

Offical Nordic development kits such as the nRF9160DK have a sticker on the back indicating the device's IMEI and PIN.

> They are preprovisioned with JITP certificates so they can be added easily to nRF Cloud using the device ID ``nrf-IMEI`` and PIN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They are preprovisioned with just-in-time provisioning (JITP) certificates so they can be added easily to nRF Cloud using the device ID ``nrf-IMEI`` and PIN.
```

> Customers using custom hardware cannot use ``nrf-<IMEI>`` style device ids.
> Names that start with ``nrf-`` and their PIN or HWID are checked against a database of genuine Nordic development kits and Thingy:91s.
> If not found in the database, the device cannot connect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device IDs that start with ``nrf-`` are checked against a database of genuine Nordic development kits and Thingy:91s.
If the device ID (and the accompanying PIN or HWID) is not found in the database, the device cannot connect.
This means that customers using custom hardware cannot use the ``nrf-`` prefix for their device IDs.
```

Choose your own PIN when creating creating JITP credentials for a custom device.

The `device_credentials_installer.py`_ script uses the device UUID format by default.
See these command line options to use other device ID formats:

> * --id_str ID_STR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``--id_str ID_STR``
```

>   Device ID to use instead of UUID. Will be a prefix if used with --id_imei (default: )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Set a device ID that is used instead of UUID.
  Will be set as a prefix if the ``--id_imei`` option is enabled.
  The default value for the option is empty.
```
Not sure if the wording for the default is correct.

> * --id_imei

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``--id_imei``
```

>   Use IMEI for device ID instead of UUID. Add a prefix with --id_str (default: False)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Enable using IMEI for device ID instead of UUID.
  You can add a prefix to the IMEI with the ``--id_str`` option.
  The default value for the option is false.
```

> Your firmware's device ID configuration must align with the options used when executing device_credentials_installer.py.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your firmware's device ID configuration must align with the options used when executing the :file:`device_credentials_installer.py` script.
```

> See: https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/libraries/networking/nrf_cloud.html#configuration-options-for-device-id

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the :ref:`configuration_device_id` section of the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library documentation for more information.
```

> The ``device_device_credentials_installer.py`` script automatically connects over ``USB`` or ``RTT`` to a device and installs the certificates in the modem -- no need to use nRF Connect for Desktop’s Cellular Monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :file:`device_credentials_installer.py` script automatically connects over USB or RTT to your device and installs the certificates in the modem.
```
No need to dunk on our own offerings.

Author: I didn't think I was dunking, but it's OK to change it. We have found some customers try to mix different methods like this, so I was really just trying to prevent this in the future.

> Install and run firmware on the device beforehand which accepts AT commands over the USB, like at_client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running the script, you must install and run firmware on the device that allows it to accept AT commands over USB, such as the :ref:AT Client <at_client_sample>` sample.
```
should that be "USB or RTT"?

Choosing a device ID format: prefix-IMEI, device UUID, or other
***************************************************************

nRF Cloud supports a variety of device ID formats:

* A prefix plus IMEI

  This is reserved for Nordic development kits or evaluation platforms when the prefix is ``nrf-``.

* The device UUID

  This is a guaranteed unique ID stored in the modem.

* Compile-time

  A fixed device ID compiled into the firmware.

* Run-time

  A device ID generated by the application in an application-specific way.

* HW-ID

  A device ID generated from one of a selection of hardware IDs.

Offical Nordic development kits such as the nRF9160DK have a sticker on the back indicating the device's IMEI and PIN.
They are preprovisioned with JITP certificates so they can be added easily to nRF Cloud using the device ID ``nrf-IMEI`` and PIN.
Customers using custom hardware cannot use ``nrf-<IMEI>`` style device ids.
Names that start with ``nrf-`` and their PIN or HWID are checked against a database of genuine Nordic development kits and Thingy:91s.
If not found in the database, the device cannot connect.

> PINs/HWIDs are not needed for customers to connect custom devices to nRF Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Choose your own PIN when creating creating JITP credentials for a custom device.
```

when creating JITP certs and associating a JITP device, the front end requires a PIN/HWID input.
i can't tell if the APIs actually require it.

> The `device_credentials_installer.py`_ script supports either method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `device_credentials_installer.py`_ script uses the device UUID format by default.
```

> See these command line options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See these command line options to use other device ID formats:
```

* --id_str ID_STR

  Device ID to use instead of UUID. Will be a prefix if used with --id_imei (default: )

* --id_imei

  Use IMEI for device ID instead of UUID. Add a prefix with --id_str (default: False)

> * -d, --delete

Reviewer 2: i think this can be removed since it is mentioned a couple lines down

* Device connected to nRF Cloud over REST, interacting using the `nRF Cloud REST API`_.
* Device connected to a customer cloud service in a suitable manner. The services can be used from the customer cloud service that communicates over REST to the nRF Cloud REST API in a proxy configuration.

Choosing a device ID format: prefix-IMEI, device UUID, or other
***************************************************************

> nRF Cloud supports a variety of device ID formats:

Reviewer 2: the `nrf_cloud` firmware library supports...
nRF Cloud supports pretty much anything 😆

* A prefix plus IMEI
  This is reserved for Nordic development kits or evaluation platforms when the prefix is ``nrf-``.
* The device UUID
  This is a guaranteed unique ID stored in the modem.
* Compile-time
  A fixed device ID compiled into the firmware.
* Run-time
  A device ID generated by the application in an application-specific way.
* HW-ID
  A device ID generated from one of a selection of hardware IDs.

Offical Nordic development kits such as the nRF9160DK have a sticker on the back indicating the device's IMEI and PIN.
They are preprovisioned with JITP certificates so they can be added easily to nRF Cloud using the device ID ``nrf-IMEI`` and PIN.
Customers using custom hardware cannot use ``nrf-<IMEI>`` style device ids.
Names that start with ``nrf-`` and their PIN or HWID are checked against a database of genuine Nordic development kits and Thingy:91s.
If not found in the database, the device cannot connect.
PINs/HWIDs are not needed for customers to connect custom devices to nRF Cloud.

> The device_credentials_installer.py script supports either method.

Reviewer 3: I think we should link to the repo that contains this script when mentioning it here for the first time

See these command line options:
--id_str ID_STR       Device ID to use instead of UUID. Will be a prefix if used with --id_imei (default: )
--id_imei             Use IMEI for device ID instead of UUID. Add a prefix with --id_str (default: False)
-d, --delete          bool: Delete sectag from modem first (default: False)

The device_device_credentials_installer.py automatically connects over USB to a device and installs the certificates in the modem -- the customer does not need to use nRF Connect for Desktop’s Cellular Monitor.
You need to install and run firmware on the device beforehand which accepts AT commands over the USB, like at_client.

> You must build you firmware to match this – see:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must build your firmware to match this – see:
```

Reviewer 2: i think this statement should be moved up a bit... and maybe modified to something like:

"Your firmware's device ID configuration _(link to NRF_CLOUD_CLIENT_ID_SRC)_ must align with the options used when executing device_credentials_installer.py "

https://developer.nordicsemi.com/nRF_Connect_SDK/doc/latest/nrf/libraries/networking/nrf_cloud.html#configuration-options-for-device-id

> If they installed certificates before, they must delete the old certificates from the device (use the --delete option).

Reviewer 2: they?

Author: This started out as the comments in the Jira ticket. Missed that one.

> They must (re)generate and install new certificates that match this device id (they can’t mix certificates generated with one kind of device id with firmware that expects a different kind of device id).

Reviewer 2: they?

A device can successfully connect to `nRF Cloud`_ using MQTT if the following requirements are met:

* The device contains a correct x509 CA certificate, device certificate, and private key.
* The device ID and device certificate are provisioned and onboarded with nRF Cloud.

`nRF Cloud`_ supports the following three ways for creating and installing these certificates both in the device and the cloud:

* nRF Cloud provisioning service and library

  This option enables devices to receive provisioning commands over the air and can then optionally onboard the devices to nRF Cloud.
  This allows you to defer the provisioning step until a device is deployed in the field instead of during manufacturing.
  The only manufacturing step is to request the ``attestation token`` from the device to claim the device in nRF Cloud.

  The device's private key is generated by the device and stored securely.
  It cannot be read from the device, ensuring security.

  See the following for more information:

  * `nRF Cloud Provisioning Service`_
  * `nRF Cloud Auto-onboarding`_
  * `nRF Cloud device claiming`_
  * :ref:`nrf_cloud_multi_service_provisioning_service`
  * :ref:`lib_nrf_provisioning`

> * Just in time provisioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Just-in-time provisioning (JITP)
```

>   NOTE: This is not supported by CoAP connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. note::
     This option is not supported by CoAP connections.
```

  Nordic development kits and evaluation platforms are preprovisioned with JITP certificates.

>   In order to use JITP for custom devices, or to replace the JITP credentials in a device, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  To use JITP for custom devices, or to replace the JITP credentials in a device, do the following:
```
